From Hansel minutes.com. It's Hanselman.
It's our weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
43. Recorded Wednesday, November 29th, 2006. A
for Hanselman it's just provided
by COVID Smith tools makers
with coach Smith, an extensible
template based code generator for.net
Hanselman minutes. Listeners get $100
off code Smith professional with
coupon code H M 100.
online@covidsmithtools.com and buy slash end
software red carpet subscription. The
most comprehensive solution for adding
connectivity to your.net and asp.net
applications with components for every
major internet protocol online@www.in software.com.
Support is also provided by.net
developers journal. The world's leading
Dutton and developer magazine online
at www dot  dot
com. In this episode, Scott
crawled discussing life hacks with
author and developer, Jennifer Pawnee.
Hi, this is Carl Franklin and
you're listening to Hansel minutes@hanselminutes.com
and I'm here with Scott
Hanselman and a very special
guest. Hello Scott. Hi, how
are you, sir? Why don't
you introduce our guests? We
don't do a lot of
guests here on the show,
of course, but we're very
fortunate to have Gina Trapani
from life. hacker.com. Hi Gina.
Hi, thanks for having me.
We really appreciate you taking
the time. I actually wanted
you to be on the
show because we have some
friends in the publishing industry
and I got a pre-released
copy of your upcoming book
called a life hacker, ADA
tech tricks to triple charged
your day. Say that three
times fast and, and read
it and just, just loved
it. I, I think I
explained it to my editor
saying that, you know, a
book is good when you
read it and you're jealous
that you didn't write it
yourself. Thank you so much.
So yeah, I was kinda
bummed you, you beat me
to it. I says, ah,
this is a great book.
I need to write that.
It's like, it's just like
a nice short, but very
productive life hacks to, to
make, make everything better about
your life. But Dana, we
did a life hack show
before, and I know that
you listened to that show,
but can you tell us
a little about the origin
of the term life facts?
Actually, the, the term was
coined by a gentleman named
Danny O'Brien. Who's a technology
journalist who did a presentation
at the tech O'Reilly's ed
tech conference in 2004. And
the name of his session
was, was life hacks, the
secrets of over prolific alpha
geek. He had pulled like,
I don't know, a few
dozen of his like easiest
friends and said how you
guys get your stuff done
every day. And what came
out of the interviews is
that, you know, as geeks,
I mean, especially programmers, right?
Cause your, your whole job
as a programmer is to
automate something, you know, build
software. That's going to take
the load off of a
human being. But a lot
of programmers build in these
like kind of embarrassing little
scripts or stupid systems or
shortcuts in their kind of
everyday workflow. So to speed
things up. So his presentation
Danny's presentation was done in
2004 and I just love
the term. I just love
the term life hack. I
thought I had all those
little shortcuts and scripts and
bash scripts and things kind
of set up for myself.
And I love to hear
about what other, what other
people did and how they
ran their lives. You know,
they're, they're kind of like
digitalized. So This isn't just
software, we're talking about Cina,
right? These are any of
the, I mean, like I
saw bookends made out of
CD cases on your blog,
is it? Yes. Yeah. Well,
you know, Danny, his original
intention, meaning the original term
sort of referred to mostly
technical things like, you know,
scripts to, you know, filter
your email or run your,
you know, to do dot
text file. But the term
kind of has brought, has,
has been broadened and, you
know, and I've, I've we've
life hacker.com. We've kind of
broaden it to include lots
of different things like making,
you know, bookends out of
CD cases or, you know,
how to, I don't know,
One of the life hacks
that I've hacked my life
with is this pocket mud,
right? I mean, it's just
taking a piece of paper
building up pages and printing
it out and making a
tiny little book. I mean,
I think I did that
in seventh grade, but it
seems so much cooler when
it's a flash app. Let
you know. Absolutely. Absolutely. Oh
yeah. I mean, Merlin man,
the hipster PDA, which you
talked about in your last
airlines, the rubber bands, right?
Index index cards, Sinking to
paper. I do it all
the time. Yeah. I started
working when my Palm pilot
and my pocket PC and
my Blackberry aren't talking to
each other, I just say
get a bunch of three
by five cards and, and
sync to paper. Yep. Absolutely.
You know, the first, the
first chapter of your book
is called free up mental
Ram. And I understand that
you're getting things done kind
of convert as well. Yes.
So you're all about David Allen
and his getting things done.
I think we did a
show on getting things done.
Yeah. All hail. And I'm
just, I'm flipping through some
of the ones that I
liked right here. You have
everything from how to set
up an Apache web server
and make your own Wiki
local Wiki to how to
take great notes. I mean,
this all happens in one
chapter and that's the kind
of give you a taste
of what the book is.
Like. One of the things
that I noticed that I
actually asked Carl about before
we started the show that
he had was not familiar
with. And I think not
enough people are familiar with
is this notion of bookmarklets
yeah. Never heard of those.
What is a bookmarklet and
why do they rock A
bookmarklet is just, it's basically
a link that you bookmark,
but the link isn't to
a URL, it's a snippet
of JavaScript, which, you know,
X does something on the
page that you're looking at.
So, so for instance, if
you use, are you familiar
with like the delicious bookmark
social bookmarks? Totally. I use
the Firefox extension for delicious.
The Firefox extension is great
too, but there's a delicious
bookmarklet that you can, you
know, you just drag and
drop to your toolbar, which,
you know, if you're looking
at a webpage that you
want to add, the delicious,
you just hit the, hit
the bookmarklet and it pops
up a window, which automatically
lets you do that. So
it's just like a regular
bookmark, but it, it, it
does a Javascripty things. Yeah.
Is there something like that
for dig too? Because I
noticed in dig, you have
to, you know, most people
put little icons embedded in
their webpages in order for
the viewers to be able
to add them to dig,
but you can do that
externally too. Oh, absolutely. Yeah.
You can use a bookmark
lot as well. Cool. Yeah,
it seems with bookmarklets you
could like, if I wanted
to write a bookmarklet that
would highlight the word Hanselman
on any page I could
do that. It would be
it's basically you have full
access to the Dom because
the JavaScript training locally, it's
not a cross site scripting
attack and you can just
click and do whatever you
want to do. Exactly. It
could be search and replace
or extract. You could make
a bookmarklet to make fonts
bigger. Yeah, absolutely. I wrote
a bookmarklet called the lie
detector. M L Y I,
since I do a lot
of writing, I, one of
the kind of rules and
writing is that you're not
supposed to use adverbs very
often, which are words that
end in LOI. I wrote
a bookmarklet that actually will
highlight any, any words that
end in LOI on a
page like, like in yellow,
like as if it were
a highlighter and kind of
like, so you know that
a page isn't written very
well post isn't written very
well. If it lights up
like a Christmas tree, when
you hit the, you know,
the lie detector bookmarklet so
you can do all kinds
of neat things. Bookmarklets Gina.
Yes. misbehaving.net. That's an awesome
blog name. Yes. It is
one of the other sites
that I contribute to. I
particularly like the quote well-behaved
women seldom make history. I've
seen that on a few
bumper stickers in my town.
Yes. Yeah. That's a fun
site that I, I, I
work with collaborate with a
few other women in tech.
No, a lot SPF being
a women in tech, a
lot of our listeners and
a lot of techies as
you well know, are, are
men, but, and sometimes people
say, well, women kind of
head towards in the designer
perspective and men head towards
the, you know, the C
plus plus direction as a
woman in tech. Do you
see any kind of, and
I presume you've been doing
this for awhile, you know,
we've kind of all been
doing this for, you know,
10 plus years, 15 years.
Is there a, is there
a change? Is there, is
that a, a fair separation?
You know, I haven't done
any kind of official studies
on this, so I'm just
speaking totally from yeah. From
my just kind of my
opinion, I think in, in
general women, or at least
I'm really focused on how
technology can be useful, like
the place where technology intersects
with your life. Whereas, and
again, speaking in very general,
very general terms here, I
think men can get just
sort of really wowed by
technology just for the sake
of technology, which kind of
brings it to, I don't
live to geek to live.
And that, that's kind of
my, really my focus with
life hacker is like, we're
not just going to talk
about technology just because it,
you know, just cause it's
cool or like do things
just because you can, you
do things because like the
whole purpose is that we're
like, we're like humans and
the machines are supposed to
help us. It keeps us
warm and cozy. I think,
I think Gina that you
just nailed it though. And
that's actually good because I've
got lists listed down here
to talk about, you have
a kind of an ongoing
column within your site called
geek to live. And I
think you nailed it. I
mean, to speak in general
terms, men live to geek
and women geek to live.
If this isn't making my
life better or the world
better in some substantive way
than it's just being silly,
it's just being mad and
it's, it's a universal remote
control. I'm never gonna use
Chino. What's what's the invisibility
cloak all about, Oh, the
visibility cloak is a, is
a user script that I
wrote for, for grease monkey.
So grease monkey is a
Firefox extension and which re
which can run any JavaScript
on any given webpage, right?
So you have the grease
monkey installed and you say,
ah, I have this user
script that I want to
apply to the following website.
So I wrote this user
grab this grease monkey user
script called invisible invisibility cloak,
which blanks out any websites
that you don't want to
keep yourself from looking at.
Right? So like I'm a
metal filter addict, right? I
can spend hours, especially on
ask Mehta, filter or say
slash dot or say dig.
Right. I mean, I can
just, you know, I've got
an article due tomorrow and
like I could spend three
hours just clicking around those
sites. And there are times
that I just need to
strap myself out of the
chair and keep myself away
from any of those, you
know, really kind of time-sucking
sites. So the invisibility cloak,
you can apply it to
the sites that really take
up a lot of time,
like slicker or metal filter.
And when it's enabled, if
you go to one of
those sites, when you're supposed
to be doing some work,
it blanks out the site
and it pops up a
little alert box that says,
get back to work. They're
supposed to be working on
something else. So I'm, this
is typical Carl here, wouldn't
it be easier just to
get another computer that isn't
connected to the net that
only has word on it.
It would, but most of
them, at least, at least
most of my work requires
that I like look things
up on the internet. So
it's like, I need to
be on the internet. I
just got to stay away
from those sites. I know
just real, like, you know,
take me. Yeah, totally. I
noticed that one of your
hacks in here about life
specific hacks is don't check
your email in the morning,
get in and take that
first hour. When you sit
down and where you spend,
you know, you sit down
at eight in the morning,
you start checking your email.
Next thing you know, it's
10 30. It's true. Rather
than having that two and
a half hours be disappear
in a fugue just because
you were checking your email,
you have that productive sprint.
That's a great tip. It
is. Now there's a tool
that you guys use on
life hacker. And I understand
that you have some, some
other editors who work with
you on the, on the
site. It's not just you,
right? Yes. And this, I
can't remember the name of
the tool it's like auto
it or auto Auto hot
key. This is like a,
there's like a whole cult
around auto hot key. What
is the what's the, A
lot of hockey isn't is
an opensource windows scripting tool.
So with that lets you
basically just automate windows tasks.
So you can, you can
program in mouse, clicks, keyboard
presses, you know, and, and
put, you know, it's actually
pretty robust, you know, scripting
language, you can put conditionals
and wide lips and all
that stuff. So, and, and
one of the, so we've
written a few articles. In
fact, my co-editor Adam is
a, is a big auto
hockey fan. So one of
the things I use out
of hockey for is I
embed snippets of HTML into
each post on life, hacker,
like my byline and, and
that we have a specific,
specific markup for, to include
a link. So I have
little auto, hot key text
snippets that, you know, that
fill in automatically like I'll
type B, B, Y, and
it'll automatically fill in my,
you know, the markup to
show my byline on a
post. I just downloaded his
Adam patches Mauser. It's interesting.
I had a problem with
a mouse not working. I
couldn't quite figure it out.
So I downloaded Mo Mauser
and it basically gives you
a hot key that lets
you then plug the mouse
into the keyboard. So basically
the, the arrow keys or
the certain keys on your
keyboard will control the mouse.
And then from that I
found a, a mouse grid
hack that one of your
readers had done a mouse
grid. Karl is where you
say hot key. And then
the screen chops up into
nine, nine slots. Nice. And
then you hit like seven,
that would be in the
upper left corner. And then
that seven, what used to
be seven, then chops up
into nine and then you
hit seven again and then
that one chocks chops up
into nine. So you basically
in three or four clicks
can select any point on
the screen. So rather than
moving the mouse, you're basically
playing battleship with your screen.
That's all enabled with this
auto hot key when the
other auto hot key things
that just has completely changed
my life as this Wikipedia
auto, correct? Yep. Yep. I
have it running all the
time. I did an actually
one of our, one of
our, one of our readers
did we had, we had,
I had written a post
about how you, if there
are certain words that you
missed all the time, like,
like my name is Gina,
G I N a, I
always type G I a
N when I type my
name dyslexic finger is exactly.
So I made an auto
hockey script that said anytime
that I typed GI a
N you know, change it
automatically to my name. So
then one of our readers
said, Hey, there's this list
of commonly misspelled words on
Wikipedia. And they made, you
know, that the texture replacement
auto hockey script with that
Is a fantastic tool. Carl.
I mean, this is like
the auto-correct stuff built into
word, but it works for
the entire system. We used
to do this with batch
files. You know, we used
to type D I R
T you know, dirt instead
of deer. So he'd make
a dirt batch file that
calls there, parameters backing, like
this has been around forever,
but it's amazing how I
think that there's, there's the
solutions that we're talking about.
And I think this is
all significant, but one of
the things that I think
is important, and I think
you bring up in some
of your, your posts is
that you have to do
a little self analysis, a
little introspection. You have to
know that you have a
problem before you actually come
up with a solution, right?
This is part of the
geek to live perspective, as
opposed to just, Hey, this
is neat. Hey, this is
neat. And it solved a
problem. I mean, I had
to sit down and say,
well, I have a problem.
I consistently misspell stuff. You
know what I think why
this appeals to geek? So
well, especially programmers I think
is because I've noticed that
as a programmer to be
really good, you cannot serve
your ego. You know, you
always, you're always questioning whether
what you're doing is the
right thing or whether it's
the right way. And you
know, somebody like who, an
older person who is trying
to print, you know, a
word doc who doesn't really
have any experience with computers,
there's a lot more frail
in the tech ego, you
know, does, you know, I
do it this way and
it's gonna work just by
kind of thing. You know,
I do my nine key
stroke print, you know, a
sequence because it works. You
have to have, you have
to have flexibility. You have
to be able to say,
this is not a good
way I'm doing this. It
costs me time. It costs
me money. It costs me
minutes. Yeah. So life hack
seemed to me to be
the sort of the, the,
you know, taking it to
its furthest extreme. Okay. So,
you know, you can look
at yourself, you can see,
you know, I I'm deficient
in these areas. What are
some hacks to help me
overcome those things? How many,
this is a lot of
hacks then looking at this
book here, and this just
goes on and on and
on, you've got 300 pages,
like 88 different tips. And
I'm looking at this, trying
to think how many of
these I'm going to be
able to apply to my
day? How many do you
keep in your head? This
is one of the things
that a lot of people
ask me about my tools
list that I keep like,
wow, this is great. You've
got 300 tools listed, but
how many do you really
use? Yeah. You know, I've
used every book, first of
all, is, is their 80
hacks. But it's certainly, it's
very much like a buffet,
you know, go up, you
flip through it, you figure
out what your, what your
issues are and, and, and,
you know, kind of pick
and choose the ones that
are gonna really apply to
you. I mean, like I,
you know, I have two
different kinds of Wiki installations
in the book, for instance.
So you don't necessarily want
to run two different wikis,
but one is much easier
than the other, depending on
sort of your, your skill
level. And, you know, Wiki
might even, might not work
for a lot of people.
I know it wouldn't work
for say, you know, my
sister. So the book is
kind of like, do you
want to pick and choose
the things that I wouldn't
recommend that every single person
use every, you know, every
single in all 88 hacks,
but every single one of
the book I have used
at one point or another,
it really, it really depends
on what kind of projects
I'm working on at the
time. And like, what are
the things that are really
bugging me, but I've definitely
used every, every single one
at one point or another.
Here's a hack for you,
Carl hack, 15 sentence stuff
to death row. Tell me,
tell, tell Carl about death
row and why he needs
to involve that in his
life. That That's where it
is when you're is basically
when you're hanging on to
too much stuff in your
life, whether it's, you know,
tasks on your, to do
list or software installed in
your computer or, you know,
projects that you want to,
you know, thinking about doing,
or just like stuff, magazines
laying around the house, or,
you know, gadgets, even clutter,
clutter. Yeah, exactly. Any stuff
that you doubt about whether
or not you need make
a big box, whether it's
a virtual folder on your,
on your desktop or, or
a physical cardboard box and
your office and dump it
in the box and the
box is death row. That
seems like the first step
in getting things done. Yeah.
It really, it really does.
It really is very similar
to that. But the thing
is with death row, the
death row box is that
you put it aside. And
if you don't think that
you need one of those
things after a certain amount
of time, six weeks or
a month toss it, you
don't need this stuff. It's
basically just, I think that,
you know, we're just bombarded
with so much information. We
have so many tools available
to us, you know, at
all times I think that,
you know, we really have
to be really kind of
harsh editors, you know, in
our lives and be like,
what are the things that
I really need? And the
rest, like, I, if I
don't read that copy of
the new Yorker, like it's
okay. Isn't that funny? That
that's so true though, because
you look, you're looking at
your book, you've got like,
you might have one tip,
that'll go on for 10
pages. But like the death
row tip is two paragraphs,
but that might be the
one that really affects me,
my wife and I walk
around the house. And we
say, if we haven't physically
touched something in two years,
unless it's a picture or
something, you know, truly like,
you know, a memento, we
throw it out, live simpler.
You know, if you it's
great that you've got that
old Nintendo, but if you
haven't touched it in, in
two years, toss it, it's,
it's very cathartic. I really,
I can't say enough about
that. That's, that's the kind
of the essence of, of,
of a life hack, I
think, is doing something, doing
something a little, you might
make it a little more,
a little uncomfortable initially, but
at the end, you're going
to say, wow, that was
very satisfying. Things are better
now on the other side.
Absolutely. And the nice thing
about the death row approach
is that you give yourself
a window of a couple
of months, like, you know,
okay, I'm going to give
myself a little safety net.
You know, if I realize
I'm going to need this
next week, when it comes
out of the box and
I held onto it. Totally,
totally. Now in the interest
of making things better, we've
talked about bookmark, let's talk
about life hacks, but I
understand that you're also a
Firefox two Oh, extension developer
and a lot of my
listeners, right. You know, active
X controls and stuff, but
the other than having a
whole lot of extensions installed,
I don't even know what
is inside an XPI extension
Next year is actually a
Firefox extension is an XPI.
But an externally is actually
just a zip file. If
you renamed the XPI to.zip,
you can unzip it with,
you know, WinZip or seven
zip. And so, and it's
just a file that's made
up of other files, JavaScript
and XML Zul, which I'm
actually not sure if even
that's the way you say
it. Cause I've only read
it XUL is the, is
the, is the, is the
structure is the specification that
Firefox uses the plugin to
plug into the browser into
the Chrome. So you really
can download any firefighter extension,
like I said, and unzip
it to take a look
at the innards of it.
And really all it is,
is snippets of JavaScript and
pieces of XML, which say,
add this button to this
tool bar or add this
menu to this, you know,
to this pull down. So
it's really actually very simple.
In fact, when I, when
I first realized that that's
all a Firefox extension was,
I was kind of amazed.
So really, I mean, if
you, if you're a bookmark
with developer or even if
you can just know a
little bit of JavaScript, it's
not hard at all to
make a Firefox extension And
you can access pretty much
anything on the page, but
they can also access other
parts mean it's not just
the, the, the JavaScript Dom,
but you can get two
aspects of the user interface.
Right. You can talk to,
how do you do that?
What the Juul does it
lets you talk to the
outside, what you called the,
Yeah, exactly. You can talk
to the Chrome, what we're
using using the XML sophistication,
you can say, you know,
you know, you can add
menu items and buttons and
then that's that kind of,
So the Chrome is the,
the term for the, the
outer shell of, of Mozilla.
I see Exactly. That's the
Firefox, the Firefox menus and
status bar and Okay. But
the part that's not the
renderer, it's not the renderer.
That's kind of anti-climactic isn't
it. So I can just
open up the delicious dot
XPI and go and see
how they did that and
make my own like, just
like that. Yeah. It's really,
it's really not hard. I
mean, there's a, there's a
certain folder structure and, and
that kind of thing, but
it's really, it's really not
difficult. In fact, at this
point now Firefox twos, developer
tools are much, much better.
I started developing extensions for
Firefox 0.9 and it was
just, Oh, it was a
nightmare, but things had gotten
a lot better. And in
fact, if I it's just
a Google away, there are
a few developer tools. I
mean, there's one that it's
like a wizard that's like
put in the name of
your extension, you know, put
in, you know, you've kind
of enter in basic information
and it creates a skeleton
for you to start with
Gina, what is to do
dot text? Oh, to do
that text is the way
that I could keep track
of all my, to dues
and projects and that kind
of thing. And I wrote
just a simple text file,
but I, I found myself
opening it up in an
editor and rearranging it and
sorting it and wanting to
kind of tag it with
keywords and, and only see
the lines that had certain
keywords. So I wound up
writing a script. It's a,
it's a shell script, which
I actually run in Sigma
and on windows, which is
a Unix emulator. So it's
a, it's a bash script.
It's not a batch script,
which, which manages my to
do that tax. So if
I add a task to
my, to do text, which
is just a plain text,
which has, you know, project
life hacker, a draft idea
for next week's feature, that
would be, say, one line
am I to do text?
And my, my to do
text script can say, I
can say, show me all
of the life hacker related
to do's that I have,
or show me all the
home improvement to do's that
I've, that I've listed. How
big is your to do
dot text right now? I
try and keep mine actually
to under a hundred lines.
So yeah, it's about, it's
about a 90 lines. Yeah.
My to do text isn't
a dumping ground for everything.
It's it's next action. That's
like what David Allen would, would,
would consider a next action.
It's like very concrete thought
out committed to, I'm definitely
doing this next action. Yeah.
I'm looking at your, to
do dot a S H
your shelf, your shell script,
and you just say like
T list tax return and
it filters out those, just
those things that apply to
your tax return. I mean,
everyone's got a, to do
dot text on their desktop,
or it has had one
at some point a I
do right now and it's
just, it has no structure
at all. So you've kind
of come up with a
pretty simple tag structure with
prefixes and suffixes to give
context to that all within
the next actions, a kind
of good stalled. Exactly. Exactly.
And there also, you can
also add context. So like
if, you know, call Scott
is a phone call, I
have to make, I would
say the context there is
at phone. So if I
am, you know, sitting at
my desk and I've got
access to a phone, but
nothing else I can say,
Hey, show me all the,
all the phone calls I
have to make and just
say list, you know, at
phone I can and I
would, and I, and I
would get those. So it's
basically just, it's basically just
like tagging tasks so you
can kind of slice and
dice them, however you want
at the command line. Look,
wow. That's very interesting because
I just installed office 2007
and it was like 800
megs and it takes 300
megs of Ram and I'm
using it to manage my
next actions. And, and you
have a text file with
a hundred lines and I'm
jealous the simplicity. It is.
It's just, it's, it's funny
that, that, that just like
the sinking to paper that
we talked about before, the
idea that sometimes it's comforting
just to get a three
by five card and write
down what you have to
do there, there is, there
is comfort in a, in
a simple text file and,
and a clean, I mean,
I'm sure that you can
add something to that instantly,
right? It takes you no
time at all. You don't
have to launch anything. You
just go T ad boom.
And then it's done. Yup.
Yup. I've got a little,
I've got a lot of
keyboard shortcuts. Yep. That's fantastic.
So Gina, how many blogs
do you have? Cause I'm
seeing well, just websites. Like
I see spun and the
digital journalist and scribbling.net is.
And then there's the, the
other one, which I mentioned
before misbehaving.net. You seem to
have a lot of projects.
I have a lot of
projects going on. Not all
of those are mine. The
digital journalist is a, is
a photo journalism magazine, which
I produced there. Actually one
of my clients spawn is
kind of developer blog, which
doesn't get updated very frequently.
Cause I'm usually life hacking.
Most of my time, scribbling
is my, is my personal
blog, which also doesn't get
updated very often. You can
go there to check, to
see, you know, pictures of
my cat and what I
had for lunch, all that
kind of fun stuff. And
misbehaving is a group of
site that I work with
with a bunch of other
folks. So That's cool. So
the life hacks are working
apparently have all this time
to do all these projects.
I don't know if you
look at the last updated
date on a few of
those sites, you might not
think so. So you're, you're
a professional blogger. Yeah. That's
fair to say. I mean,
everyone blogs, I mean, not
everyone, but I mean, a
lot of people blog, a
lot of people say, well,
gee, how can I monetize
my blog? I know I've
got a little ad sense.
And a little as Tamara
said, us ads. And you
know, I think it brings
in a couple of hundred
bucks a month and I
use it to, to basically
eat, you know, that's, that's,
you know, we're not buying
cars and flying off to
Cabo with the blood money.
We're making blogging, blogging pays
your mortgage. Yes, I am.
I am a professional blogger,
although it's hard for me
to say that without, without
laughing a little bit. How
do you do that? Well,
you know, one of the
difference between doing life hacker
and doing my personal blog
is that, you know, Gawker
media publishes life hacker. So
it's more like writing for
a magazine than writing for
then writing, you know, my
own blog, like, you know,
working at writing life hacker
is like, you know, we
have a whole kind of
sales department and tech department
that kind of takes care
of a lot of stuff
behind the scenes. And I
get paid, you know, not
a salary, but more as
a contractor, you know, to
the right, to write the
site, You're not paid like
per word or per blog.
That there's just a sense
that you're doing a good
job. And they say, well,
I think that this was
a great week for life
hacker. Well, we get paid
on a, on a post
basis. And then that we
also get, we get bonuses
for like traffic increases. Oh
really? So they, they, they
track that kind of stuff.
So Gawker media ma they
have a number of different
blogs. Yes they do. I
think 15 right now, Like
about life hacker.com is the
quality of the posts is
great. It's not just like
stream of consciousness blah-blah-blah and
you know, it's, it's a
lot like Scott's blog in
that way and you know,
I'm just seeing it for
the first time. So that's
why I'm comparing yours to
his, in the geek world.
We'd say the signal to
noise ratio is very high,
very high. Yeah. And, you
know, complete with very nice
graphics that are laid out
and in an, in an
intelligent way. And you know,
that's very nice to be
able to, I would come
back here again and again,
Oh, this is, I actually
have a folder in my,
I've got an, you know,
I've got like, I don't
know, 1500 blogs, whatever. I
I've got a folder called
essential. And that's like the,
if I can't read any
blogs at all today, here
are the 12 that I
read and life hackers. Well,
they're under L Awesome. Excellent.
It's like the, site's like
an gadget, you know, I
actually, frankly, I hate to
say this, then I may
get my geek card revoked,
but I haven't read slash.in
a while. It's just the
sick silence vile. I don't
like blogging bile. I like
positivism. That's a word. I
pretty much, I pretty much
read dig now. Really most
of the time. Yeah. And
Google news, I'm liking these,
I think of these boutique
sites. I don't have to
call, I apologize for calling
a life hack or a
boutique site, but it's, it's
focused on one thing and
it's, you're, you're, you're obviously
careful not to just turn
it into a link dumping
site. Yes. I'm sure that
you're conscious about that kind
of stuff. It sounds like
you're really less of a
blogger and more of a
professional journalist. Is that a
better way to put it
or professional technology writer? The
blog is just one of
the representations of that. Yes.
Yeah. When someone somewhere in
between a blogger and a
journalist, for sure. Okay. What's
your favorite life hack all
time favorite? Oh, all time
favorite. Oh, that's a tough
one. You know, if we've
done about 8,000 posts on
the site at this point,
and I love them all
like my children, Well, what
are ones that you do
every day? What's the like,
Oh, wow. I'm so glad
I have that. And I
use it every day. I
would say definitely index cards
in my back pocket to
write things down that come
up in my mind. Absolutely.
Yeah. I have a, I
have a little bit of,
you know, like most programmers,
a little bit of add
things, come up. I got
to get them out or
else I'll get hung up
on them. I do. I
do have a Moschino, which
I really like, although Moschino
is such an, it's such
a beautiful notebook that I
feel bad about sticking in
my back pocket and sitting
on it and, you know,
getting it dirty. So I,
yeah, I'm trying to get
Carl into the Moschino. This,
this is the iPod of
personal notebooks, right? Hemingway had
one. Yeah. I'm kinda the
same way. And what'll happen
with me is I'll get
about halfway through it, filling
it. And then I'll just
say, well, I want a
fresh one. Yes. And I'm
always jealous of those people.
You go into their office
and they get like 15
of them and they're all
filled up. And they were
like labeled with the month
that they wrote it and
they can go back and,
and ended up. I'm never
writing enough in these things.
I pretty much do all
my work on a, a
Samsung PDA phone, a pocket
PC phone. And without that,
I'm pretty much screwed. It's
tough. There's a, there's a
certain visceral glee that I
get from having a piece
of paper. I mean, sometimes
when I'm stressed out, I
don't take my laptop to
a coffee shop cause I
gotta go. I have to
get all those windows out
of the way. The way
I get the windows out
of the way is with
a piece of paper Fisher
space pen. Hmm. Hmm. Absolutely.
Well, fantastic. I really appreciate
you taking the time to
give us a call. We've
got a kind of a
three way phone call. You're
in the Bay area. I'm
in San Diego, actually San
Diego via Brooklyn though. So
Cal you're in you're from
Brooklyn originally. And why did
you move out to the
West coast to blog? No,
actually Gawker's based in New York
city. So, but, but we
have editors kind of all
over the, all over the
country. I moved out to
California just to, you know,
learn how to surf, have
a couple of burritos. That's
fantastic. That's fantastic. Well, we
really appreciate you taking the
time. We're going to put
all the links to the
delicious category for life hacks
to life, hacker.com to the
geek Deliv stuff too. You've
got a how to, on
how to write a Firefox
extension. We'll post that up
there as well as information
on the term life hacks
and where that came from.
And then we're also post
links to your book on
Amazon. It's coming out in
a week or two, right?
Yes it is. Yes it
is. Thank you so much.
I really appreciate it. This
has been great. Gina. Thanks
Ken from myself and everybody
here. Co-ops studios and we'll,
we'll talk to you next
week. Dear listener.